= orm_adapter

Provides a single point of entry for popular ruby ORMs.  Its target audience is gem authors who want to support more than one ORM.


== Example of use

  require 'orm_adapter'

  User # is it an ActiveRecord, DM Resource, or MongoId Document?
  
  User.to_adapter.find_first :name => 'Fred' # we don't care!
  
  user_model = User.to_adapter
  user_model.get!(1)                      # find a record by id
  user_model.find_first(:name => 'fred')  # find first fred
  user_model.find_all(:name => 'fred')    # find all freds
  user_model.create!(:name => 'fred')     # create a fred 
  

== Supported adapters

Currently supported ORMs are *ActiveRecord*, *DataMapper* and *MongoId*.  More adapters are welcome!

To write an adapter look at +lib/orm_adapter/adapters/active_record.rb+ for an example of implementation.  To see how to test it, look at +spec/orm_adapter/example_app_shared.rb+, +spec/orm_adapter/adapters/active_record_spec.rb+.  You'll need to require the target ORM in +spec/spec_helper.rb+


== History

orm_adapter is an extraction from {pickle}[http://github.com/ianwhite/pickle] by {Ian White}[http://github.com/ianwhite].  Pickle's orm adapter included work by {Daniel Neighman}[http://github.com/hassox], {Josh Bassett}[http://github.com/nullobject], {Marc Lee}[http://github.com/maleko], and {Sebastian Zuchmanski}[http://github.com/sebcioz].

{José Valim}[http://github.com/josevalim] suggested the extraction, and worked on the first release with Ian.


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Ian White and José Valim. See LICENSE for details.
